#summary How to install get_flash_videos
#labels Featured,Phase-Deploy

= Requirements =

Basic requirements:
  * perl >= 5.8.0
  * WWW::Mechanize (but not for the combined version, see OSX below).

Optional requirements (for support for certain sites):
  * rtmpdump (see section below)
  * XML::Simple
  * Data::AMF
  * Compress::Zlib
  * Crypt::Rijndael

= Various operating systems =

== Getting latest code from git ==

We haven't done a release for ages, and get_flash_videos often changes pretty frequently as sites constantly update, breaking the code. This means that the easiest approach is often to get the latest code from git.

On a Linux or other UNIX-like operating systems, if you've got git installed, just run:

{{{
  git clone https://github.com/monsieurvideo/get-flash-videos.git
}}}

This will produce a get-flash-videos directory. cd into it and from there you can simply run:

{{{
  ./get_flash_videos
}}}

To update, use standard git commands. This isn't the right place for a git tutorial, but in general just use:

{{{
  git pull origin master
}}}

== Unofficial releases ==

If you don't like the idea of getting get_flash_videos from git, njtaylor kindly provides downloads of unofficial get_flash_videos releases from [https://github.com/njtaylor/get-flash-videos/downloads njtaylor's github page].

== Debian / Ubuntu packaged version ==

Run the following commands in a terminal, this installs it system-wide.

{{{
 sudo apt-get install libwww-mechanize-perl libxml-simple-perl
 wget http://get-flash-videos.googlecode.com/files/get-flash-videos_1.24-1_all.deb
 sudo dpkg -i get-flash-videos_1.24-1_all.deb
}}}

Then, to download something:

{{{
 get_flash_videos url..
}}}

See UsageExamples for more.

== Fedora ==

This installs all the dependencies:

{{{
yum install -y perl-libxml-perl perl-WWW-Mechanize perl-Compress-Raw-Zlib perl-Crypt-Rijndael
}}}

You can then simply run the downloaded script.

Some sites require Data::AMF. This isn't packaged for Fedora apparently so you'll have to download it off CPAN.

== Other Linux/Unix-like OS ==

Install the Perl modules WWW::Mechanize (required) and XML::Simple (required for some sites). Preferably install the packaged versions of these provided by your distribution. If you can't, install the modules off [http://search.cpan.org/ CPAN] - follow [http://code.google.com/p/get-flash-videos/wiki/CPANGuide our short walkthrough] or read the [http://search.cpan.org/~jhi/perl-5.8.0/pod/perlmodinstall.pod perlmodinstall] documentation for more extensive information.

Then run the following commands in a terminal, this installs get-flash-videos system-wide.

{{{
 sudo wget http://get-flash-videos.googlecode.com/files/get_flash_videos-1.24 -O /usr/local/bin/get_flash_videos
 sudo chmod a+x /usr/local/bin/get_flash_videos
}}}

Then, to download something:
{{{
 get_flash_videos url..
}}}

See UsageExamples for more.

== Windows ==

Install [http://www.activestate.com/activeperl/ ActivePerl], making sure you tell the installer to add perl's bin directory to your PATH.

Install the Perl modules WWW::Mechanize (required), XML::Simple (required for some sites) and Crypt::Rijndael. You can install these using the PPM tool included with ActivePerl, by running commands like these at a command prompt:

{{{
  ppm install WWW-Mechanize
  ppm install XML-Simple
  ppm install Crypt-Rijndael
}}}

(To get a command prompt, go to Start, Run and type cmd and press enter.)

You can also try installing them with the CPAN shell, for example by running this at a command prompt:

{{{
  cpan install Crypt::Rijndael  
}}}

Save get-flash-videos somewhere on your hard disk, for example c:\flash.

Then, to download something:
{{{
 Start -> Run -> cmd
 perl c:/flash/get_flash_videos url
}}}

We haven't tested rtmpdump on win32. 

== OSX ==

Run the following commands in a terminal, this installs it in your home directory.

{{{
 curl -o get_flash_videos http://get-flash-videos.googlecode.com/files/combined-get_flash_videos-1.24
 chmod a+x get_flash_videos
}}}

Then, to download something:
{{{
 ./get_flash_videos url..
}}}

See UsageExamples for more.

Note you may also need to install the Perl modules XML::Simple and Data::AMF for support for some sites.

= rtmpdump =

get_flash_videos can download videos from servers over RTMP, this needs rtmpdump. You can get a copy of rtmpdump from http://rtmpdump.mplayerhq.hu. If you compile it or use an unpackaged version you should chmod it as executable and copy this to
somewhere on your PATH (e.g. /usr/local/bin). If you have problems compiling, make sure you have libssl-dev installed.

= Using get_flash_videos =

See the [http://get-flash-videos.googlecode.com/svn/misc/get_flash_videos manpage] for details on how to use get_flash_videos.